# LibXSLT

`LibXSLT` provides a library to process XSLT (XML Stylesheet Templates). The library also comes
with a command line tool, `xsltproc`. This tool is able to take XML files and transform them
through an XSLT template to give different types of documents. It is based on the `LibXML2`
port at https://github.com/gerph/libxml2/.

This repository contains a port of the library to RISC OS, continuing the original porting work
in the early 2000s. The command line tool has the same usage as under other platforms, so the
primary documentation at http://xmlsoft.org/XSLT/ should be consulted for its use.

RISC OS specific features of this port:

* Throwback is available with the `--throwback` option for errors and warnings generated by
  the transformation process.
* Filenames are able to be given in RISC OS format with the `--native` option.
* Catalogs are found through the variables defined by the libxml2 port.

## Updating to the latest upstream version

- Clone the libxslt repository at https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/libxslt
    - `git clone https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/libxslt.git`
- Check out the tag for the version to be used.
    - `git checkout v1.1.34`
- Build it, to ensure that it works and generate necessary headers with the right defines and version numbers.
    - `./autogen.sh`
    - `make`
- In this repository, checkout the branch `vendor`.
    - `git checkout vendor`
- Create a new branch in the form `vendor-<X>.<Y>.<Z>`.
    - `git checkout -b vendor-1.1.34`
- Run the `copy-libxslt.sh <directory>` to update the sources to the this version.
    - `./copy-libxslt.sh ~/external/libxslt`
- Add any extra files that have been created and commit the changes.
    - `git add libxslt/*.c libxslt/*.h libexslt/*.c libexslt/*.h xsltproc/*.c xsltproc/*.h`
    - `git commit -m "Import of version 1.1.34"`
- Merge the branch into the vendor branch.
    - `git checkout vendor`
    - `git merge vendor-1.1.34`
- Check out the master branch to return to the current version of the OS.
    - `git checkout master`
- Create a new branch for merging in the vendor branch in the form `merging-<X>.<Y>.<Z>`.
    - `git checkout -b merging-1.1.34`
- Merge in the vendor branch.
    - `git merge vendor-1.1.34`
- Link any new files into the RISC OS file structures.
    - `./link-upstream.sh`
- Update the `MakefileLib,fe1` to add any extra files that need building or exporting
- Build everything, from clean.
    - `cd RISCOS`
    - `./build-binaries.sh --clean`
- Fix any breakages caused by conflicts in the merge, and repeat.
- Add new files which are linked by the build process
    - `git add libxslt/c/* libxslt/h/* libexslt/c/* libexslt/h/* xsltproc/c/* xsltproc/h/*`
- Commit the merged version of the vendor branch.
    - `git commit`
- Update the `VersionNum` file in the `xsltproc` directory with a new version number.
- Test the new version and add any changed files.
- Commit changes to the merging branch.
    - `git commit`
- Merge into the master branch, and tag in the form `libxslt-<X>.<Y>.<Z>`.
    - `git checkout master`
    - `git merge merging-1.1.34`
    - `git tag libxslt-1.1.34`
- Push the changes to the repository.
